The Sload had a long period of inactivity in the late 3rd and early 4th eras, but they made their return to Tamriel’s history during the Silver Plague. The original island of Thras erupted from the sea and is now home to only a small number of religious zealots whose lives are devoted entirely to climbing the now-miles-high Pillar of Thras, with mostly fatal results.

The grand majority of Sload migrated to Tamriel at the height of the Plague, bringing a self-produced cure that they exchanged for land and citizenship. Some of them came into ownership of entire settlements this way, and still preside over them as unofficial barons.

The so-called “New Thras” is actually the former Argonian city of Lilmoth in Black Marsh. A militant group of Sload invaded and conquered it soon after their more peaceful brethren had settled the rest of Tamriel, taking advantage of the Argonians weakened state. New Thras is incredibly secluded, and no outsiders have entered its borders. The residents do, however, maintain a few outside contacts, mostly with Tamrielic Sload, whom they supply with Grub Rot, an illegal substance made from Hist sap. Additionally, some residents of Black Marsh have inexplicably stolen away in the night to join the Sload settlement, never offering any explanation as to why. These rogue Argonians form settlements outside of the city, fiercely guarding its borders against their former friends and families.

The city is led by the rogue Hist of Lilmoth, regrown from its severed roots. The New Thrassians have brokered a mutually beneficial arrangement with the tree, though no one is sure what it entails. The Sload of New Thras heavily utilize undead laborers, mostly stolen from Plague-era mass graves, and have used them to build laboratories where they perform unknown experiments day and night, in addition to producing their illegal export.

Rumors and reports about the settlement range wildly; some claim that New Thrassians are evil warlords who enthrall innocent Argonians in the night, luring them to their city to be dissected and experimented on before being killed and added to an undead army; others claim that they exclusively utilize existing Plague corpses, and the Argonians who abandon their homes to settle in New Thras have actually entered into a deal with the resident Sload, as it seems that their camps and settlements are amply provided for by the city. Overall, New Thras is shrouded in mystery and conjecture, and there is no clear truth to its residents and their workings.

This is a bit different from other polities in the setting. Even though it’s considered an independent political entity, it’s very small, has little interaction with the rest of Tamriel, and is home to mostly one race. The Remnant of Old Thras, the City of New Thras, and Tamrielic Sload are all mostly a way to return the Sload to the setting in roles aside from exclusively “evil slug necromancers.”

Influences for New Thras include Isengard from Lord of the Rings (more of the “industrialization of nature” and less of the “pure evil corrupting pure good”), as well as the general idea of the Sload finally succeeding in invading something.
